all I ever want to do is to keep
learning new tricks I didn't really care
about the standings or you know the
perception of my style or whatever my
job is just keep getting better and a
lot of times when you see an athlete or
an artist or whatever that reaches a
certain apex that they think like this
is goal I'm number one this is that they
lose all their motivation because that
that's all they were trying to aspire to
and my my motivation was always just to
keep getting better at skater everybody
welcome to impact here you would hear my
friends because you believe the human
potential is nearly limitless but you
know that having potential is not the
same as actually doing something with it
so our goal with this show and company
is to introduce you to the people and
ideas that will help you actually
execute on your dreams all right today's
guest is widely considered the greatest
skateboarder of all time often referred
to as the godfather of the sport itself
he started skating when he was just nine
turned pro at 14 and by his senior year
he was making more money than his
teachers by the age of 25 he had
competed in 103 Pro contest winning 73
of them and coming in second in an
additional 19 giving him a top to finish
rate of almost 90% but skateboarding
remained a fringe often disrespected
sport that saw him routinely mocked and
picked on many told him that he should
grow up and get a real job and despite
being named world champion of vert
skateboarding 12 years in a row in the
early 90s it looked like the naysayers
might be right
the popularity of skateboarding seemed
to disappear overnight and not long
after that he and his business partner
had to seriously contemplate shutting
down their fledgling skateboard company
birdhouse projects multiple times but
instead he sold his house tightened his
belt lived off cheap sandwiches and a $5
a day Taco Bell allowance and did
anything he could to make ends meet
including skateboard demos in the Six
Flags parking lot
his commitment insane work ethic and a
love of progression finally paid off
however in the late 90s when
skateboarding had a massive resurgence
in popularity due to the X Games he once
again rose to prominence dominated the
sport winning nine
game gold medals and landing the first
ever 900 on live TV just two months
before the launch of what would
ultimately make him one of the most
recognizable athletes on the planet the
billion dollar video game franchise Tony
Hawk's Pro Skater additionally he's won
countless awards appeared on The
Simpsons and his Foundation has helped
create roughly 600 skate parks across
all 50 states so please help me in
welcoming the man whose first skateboard
now hangs in the Smithsonian the New
York Times bestselling author of Hawk
occupation skateboarder the goat himself
skateboarding legend Tony Hawk thank you
for being here man so as I was saying
before we started rolling as as a kid
and then quite frankly into my early 20s
I really wanted to be good at
skateboarding so I had a skateboard I
was my mode of transportation all
through college but I was really bad at
it and so watching you I was way into
the Bones Brigade and just really wanted
to emulate that was really terrible and
researching you you said that one of the
like one of the key moments in any
skateboarders life is the first time
they really get hurt and then how they
respond to that the first time I got
hurt I stopped immediately
but how did you learn to deal with that
and really push forward ah well I think
it was the the first time I got hurt I
got it was pretty severe I got a
concussion I knocked out my teeth I woke
up pretty much in the ambulance and my
first thought was not what have I done
this is crazy it was like well how long
do I have to stay off my skateboard I
mean it was immediately like how do I
get back and also I remembered you know
as I came to I remember what I had done
and what mistake I had made and I was
thinking like well in there make that
mistake again
you know that was that was really the
thought process and I wasn't it wasn't a
matter of mortality or fear it was just
more like and I guess I realized at that
moment
why didn't I really realized that them
but I'd realized it later that that I
wasn't really afraid to get hurt
in the for the sake of progression um
you know I wanted to push through and
learn from my mistakes and endure injury
and pain to get to these these goals and
so I think that a lot of friends that I
had they got hurt once and either they
quit or their parents told to quit what
would you have done if your parents had
told you to quit at that point it's a
good question I relied on them so
heavily for transportation to the skate
park and support in that sense I
probably would have tried to skate and
make go of it however I could but I
don't think I would have been successful
at it because I really I had a lot of
support from my dad
he drew he was basically the chauffer
for all the skaters in our area to go to
different parks around around the around
the Southern California area and so if
he weren't there I don't know whether
dad would have picked up that slack and
how do you so I Big Brother for this kid
for a while
and he because I was into skating he
wanted to get into skating huh it's a
bottom aboard took him to the skate park
and he's like the target kid that you've
been building the skate parks for really
underprivileged grew up in Compton and
so it was a cool thing for him to do and
I took him to the skate park had him in
helmets pads like the whole nine and we
were there for maybe like 30 minutes and
another kid fell and dislocated his
wrist and so his wrist was like this
yeah up and back yeah and I was like oh
I was freaking out and I thought the kid
that I was with wasn't and so he just
kept doing stuff but every time like he
would go down a ramp or something like
my heart would jump now as somebody who
obviously has felt those impacts and
you've broken your pelvis and
concussions what was it like for you
watching
Riley start skating for the first time
were you did you struggle with the fear
of him getting hurt in a way that you
didn't with yourself um I did but I also
saw early on that he had a good sense of
his limitations and he liked he I mean
he was very much like me in the sense
that he wanted to push his boundaries
but also not risk his mortality I mean
he definitely got hurt in ways that I
didn't
anticipate he he broke both elbows me
before he was like ten years old mmm
you know it full like elbow cast and it
that was hard to endear but I'm not
gonna I wasn't gonna discourage him and
also he kept coming back to it
did you help him conceptualize dealing
with pain and fear because I've seen him
skate now as a pro skater and he's I
mean as I feel with all pros Street
skaters especially just looks insanely
painful and so he's got some sort of
relationship with fear and pain and all
of that I think just more by example you
know we have four other teenage boys now
and they they rely on me to sort of
assess their injury or to take care of
it because I've been through so many and
I think it's just more leading by
example and and you know showing that
well you know I don't like to say get
right back out there but but the more
the sooner you get out moving and stuff
this is the faster heals really I mean
depending on the severity of the injury
but but I think that that's key and I'm
a living example of that and do you have
any is there anything you say to
yourself a mantra or whatever when you
get hurt like are you focused on what
you're trying to accomplish
um yes I mean it's it's different now
than I'm older I'm not I'm not trying to
take the risks that I used to obviously
and and there are times when I just feel
like you know my body's not in prime
shape or capable of doing pushing this
next limit obviously but sometimes the
stubbornness overpowers that it's
interesting though you talk about that
internal drive you're doing it just for
you that really does seem to be the
hallmark of how you've been able to have
as much success and I really do want to
understand like why you what is it about
you that led you to just keep going to
innovate when the sport was dying to
face people making fun of you when it
really seemed like it was over but you
just kept doing it well the thing that I
loved initially about skateboarding is
that it felt like it was this empty
canvas anything you do even if just a
little tweak you made
it was a new trick and so it was like
there's this constant progression and
all I ever wanted to do was to keep
learning new tricks I didn't really care
about the standings or you know the
perception of my style or whatever as
long as I could keep learning these new
tricks and so as I was successful in
competition and and winning a lot of the
events my job is just to keep getting
better and a lot of times when you if
you see an athlete or an artist or
whatever that reaches a certain apex
that they think like this is goal I'm
number one this is that they lose all
their motivation because that that's all
they were trying to aspire to and my my
motivation was always just to keep
getting better at skating and so you
know enduring the sort of the naysayers
was probably helpful you know it seemed
like I was getting bullied at the time
because I did you know people people
like to write me often and say I'm a
circus skater and whatever because you
were doing tricks because I was doing
tricks and I wasn't focused on the style
and I just didn't have the the body
frame for the big gnarly air is in the
flowy style you know I was like the
scrawny rat and and I just figured out
wait I can maneuver my board under my
feet and in the air and eventually got
taller and stronger and I could do it
much higher in the air but still I was
you know I was largely made fun of for
for my lack of style but that only
fueled the fire for me because it was
just like I'm just gonna keep doing this
and hopefully prove them wrong in the
end and I can't say why me except that I
just never wanted to slow down do you
think that internal driver because so as
I was going like one of the notes you
would say something and I would take the
note over and over again was the
intrinsic motivation like you were just
there was something in you you were
trying to do so the most interesting
part of your career to me is when when
at all craters and there isn't big money
left to be had and in fact you're now
risking more and more money hoping that
it swings back up and you kept saying
like in that time there were really two
things that kept me going one I did
think that it might come back but then -
I just love skating and so I was
actually able to
make a living doing something that I
loved even though I was just sort of
getting by is that something you can
teach like and and I'll frame it this
way the number one question I get asked
all the time is how do I find my passion
um well I guess what I learned through
those years and having come through them
obviously having another way of success
is that it's it seemed like in the
hindsight it seemed like a struggle but
at the time I was still getting to do
what I loved and so it wasn't about the
cashing in or wasn't about the perks and
and the extravagant says it was more
like I get to go skate for a living and
I'm I'm paying the rent I'm you know I'm
providing for a family barely but it's
working and I get to I I enjoy my work
and that was it now so that's what I've
learned and then having come through
sort of the not the fire but you know
there's this huge wave of success to
come back to what I feel is important to
me which is is the skating and that's
what I enjoy the most and and it wasn't
I wasn't ever doing it wasn't ever doing
it for fame or fortune those are not my
motivations and so when people see my
quest your passion do all I can say is
is follow what you really enjoy doing
and you'll be that'll be your success
because if you enjoy going to work every
day that's the biggest success you can
that you can imagine as far as I'm
concerned you can be hugely successful
financially doing something you don't
like and that just doesn't bring
happiness I mean it's all it's all it
seems too cliche and it all seems kind
of basic but it's definitely what I've
learned being you know through the ups
the highs high and the low lows of a
career it's interesting
so I mean yes that is cliche in the
sense that that's what people often
repeat but you've certainly lived that
how do you help people through the like
where you can see this sort of heartache
of I want to do something that's going
to be respected externally people are
there are going to be accolades there is
going to be money or even just like I
haven't found anything that I love
enough do you find that you fanned the
flames of your own interest in
skateboarding or was it purely just like
from the
you saw people doing the airs in the
pool you were like that's it what I
think is is important that people people
find something they love and they're
like I wanted to do that but they don't
realize what all that encompasses the
wealth of knowledge you need even though
this one thing inspires you and I think
what I learned through skating and then
eventually through business is that I
wanted to learn all aspects of that and
that benefited me in the end because as
I did sort of struggle with with
skating's downturn I had this other
skillset that I had developed just
through the interest of what everything
else was in skateboarding I never
thought I wouldn't need to know like you
know point-of-sale and net profits and
marketing budgets and advertising you
know and and I I just embraced those
things so I figured well this is what
I'm doing and I and I really should
learn all those things and they might
seem trivial or they might seem boring
but but that will give you the advantage
in the end that's that's how do you
motivate yourself on those things where
it's something that you don't have the
same intrinsic love that you have when
you're skating how do you get yourself
going on something like that
um just embrace the challenge I mean I
embrace the challenges of skating all
through the years and even some things
and skating that didn't really interest
me and so I kind of learned how to
Street skate by default and it wasn't
something that I was like gunning to do
or thought that that would be my career
path but at the same time I enjoyed it
you know and there was still a sense of
community with it and we were breaking
new boundaries so I guess that's one
example of something that maybe you
didn't think you're interested in but if
you're but if you're so laser focused on
just one part of what you're doing you
kind of miss the big picture and the
other opportunities walk me through what
is the process of becoming great do you
think people are born great or do you
think literally they can work their way
someone like Andrew Reynolds oh I work
there I think it's it's all about the
work you put into it you know it's the
sort of the 10,000 hours theory in the
case of Andrew Reynolds you know he was
the scrappy little sloppy skater but he
was driven and
he was his own worst critic and it made
him perfect certain tricks that he was
doing so that they looked the way he
imagined them to look and now like you
know I'm getting a little nerdy here but
if anyone says frontside kickflip the
first thing you think of is Andrew
Reynolds and that's just how it is
because he perfected this move became
his signature and he's great he's great
at it he's a great skater because he
never wavered he never really gave up
and didn't listen to any naysayers and
do you see that process as being sort of
blind repetition i I would never say
it's blind repetition I think it's very
calculated risk methodical approach and
I mean some tricks some tricks there's
just so technical that you try it
hundred times and one works and there's
no rhyme or reason as to why that one
was different but other tricks just take
a little bit of nuance to get it dialed
in so you get it every time and that is
more a matter of determination I think
not not blind repetition but definitely
determination and and the ability to
recognize your own mistakes so I wore
this shirt grit because looking at your
career that to me is when I think about
why I was never good at skateboarding it
was because I really wasn't willing to
fall over and over again and quite
frankly I had my heart broken at one
point because I was all eing like a
fiend I thought it was really getting
good at it and somebody goes you know
that your back wheels never leave the
ground right get out of here that's not
like that's not possible no like no no
for real I actually thought they were
kidding so I said alright film me and
I've got to see this I don't believe it
and so they film me and I do the ollie
and my back wheels never leave the
ground and like my whole world came
crumbling down how can this be like
literally how can this be possible first
of all that nobody told me until then
and that second it felt like I was
really doing it and between like what it
felt like to fall which seeing you land
on your hip I know how much that hurts
and I just needed to do it once to know
yeah I don't
that yes and then doing that and what
I'm so curious I want to know time
machine you go back you're there on that
playground parking lot with me could do
you have like magic words a way to frame
it whatever inspiration to get me to
rethink about how it should be
approaching this to help me find that
thing you had which was the love of the
progression or whatever like is there a
way to I really wanted to skate Tony no
[__] like I really feel like
somebody with the right words could have
made me go oh like I have to embrace the
pain or whatever like have you seen oh
yeah I think well I def I think I could
have helped your technique for sure and
according to you if you were doing
proper ollie motion probably just a
little bit of a foot shift would have
gotten you into the air a little bit the
thing that I've noticed especially
having so many boys is that when I give
them a little bit of advice if they do
if they truly do follow it that it they
do the thing they're trying to do
sometimes they they just won't commit
that's it
you know what I mean they just won't
commit to the thing and they think that
if they move their feet and step back
the board will somehow magically do the
thing and then come back to their feet
and and that is the most frustrating
part of just trying to teach someone
because they just know they're their own
worst enemy they won't commit to this
thing fully you know I mean I get like I
can I can scream all I want like you do
like you have it this will work if you
just commit to it if you just believe
it's gonna happen and you and you decide
you're going to land it's going to work
but sometimes they just that's the
stumbling block and and that could be a
metaphor for all kinds of things how
else does that play out do you see
things like that in business like do you
is it just commitment or are there other
roadblocks that people have in their own
lives I think it all it all comes down
to risk and and your willingness to take
risks you know that's for sure a thread
that I can say is equal in skateboarding
and in business for me and what I
learned growing up is
that I am willing to take a risk for the
sake of progression or for the sake sake
of success and it doesn't always work
you know I've definitely had failures
big financial failures um but I've
learned a lot you know and I think that
the other thing is you have to embrace
those failures you have to embrace those
mistakes what do you mean by that
how do you embrace the failure well
basically you have to learn that that
approach didn't work and you don't want
to do it again obviously and and that um
if you hadn't had that failure you might
have made a much bigger mistake later on
you know doing the same exact thing
getting into business which has been
more like sort of life instructive
skateboarding or business um well I I
use all the lessons that I learned from
skateboarding in my business so I'd say
definitely skateboarding in terms of
what it taught me about persevering and
believing in myself and not listening to
the haters let's talk about that that's
actually really interesting so first of
all you're getting hated on when you're
pretty young like how did you inoculate
yourself from that um it's funny because
I tell this story I didn't have some
time to do public speaking and I tell
the story about how the the amount of
criticism I received as a kid with my
strange style and obviously you know I'm
super skinny and just like I just look
like a giant pad and the the strange
what they called a circus tricks that I
was doing I was getting a lot of flack
even in the skate magazines which was
was like skiing sorry this outcast
activity of you know misfits and and
then suddenly say I found my people
there and then I'm being ostracized from
them from my style so I'm like living in
this little bubble of uncertainty and
unlike ability and so I learned that at
that time like well don't listen to him
I'm doing what I love I have because I
had a couple friends that were kind of
on in the same mindset they were young -
they were more into the tricks and we
would just skate together and we would
bounce ideas off each other and we would
all come up with new tricks that we
enjoyed doing and that's all it took was
this small community of pea
sort of having each other's backs you
you had a lot of conviction and it
becomes easy to stand up for yourself
when you it's actually not true it's
hard to tell the sender of yourself
anytime but certainly easier if you have
a conviction but how the hell do you get
a conviction like when you're 14 and
I've seen the photos of you when you
first started skating and you really did
look hilarious like you were so skinny
yeah and I just remember at that age
like how do you get above like what
people are saying especially bigger
cooler kids you know even if you've got
a couple other kids that are your style
like that would definitely help but how
did you how did you turn those like I
think this is cool into like this is so
cool I'm gonna stand up for it and
really truly can you pass that on like
how do you teach your kids which just
comes back to the kids like is that
something you teach it's like without
just saying stand up for what you
believe in I think I think it was more
that I did get a few example well a few
boosts validation through the years and
do you have anything else in your life
other than skateboarding that you feel a
similar draw to grow and improve and get
better no not in that sense I mean if
anything its fatherhood I'm always
learning I'm always learning to be more
effective to be better and you know
sometimes it's hard because Riley was
sort of the litmus test and I obviously
could have done better in a lot of ways
and been more present and I'm still
learning a lot as I go and I've come
through a lot of chaos and turmoil just
in terms of success and relationships
and things like that and and I think my
wife and I have a really good handle on
what they need from us and how we can be
effective without being overbearing and
what is the key to being a good parent
listening and taking interest being
present and when I say present I don't
just mean like in the same room on your
phone you know which is super easy to do
and I fall into that trap too because
it's sometimes you know it will be over
all around a table and everyone's just
staring at a screen and sometimes we
just have to alright
thumbs down it's
sock other than your children I'm going
to completely take them off the table
what is the coolest thing that's ever
happened to you that's a good question
um I think being on The Simpsons was
definitely one of the biggest coolest
things that could ever happen because
the Simpsons is such a it's such a
touchstone of pop culture and what the
mainstream audience is is understanding
and looking at and the fact that they
made an episode that focused on me was
one thing but the idea that I was going
to play my own voice it always seems
like if the Simpsons has a character and
it's not that character's voice you're
know that's the opposite that's the
opposite of cool right that means
they're trying to diss you but but the
idea that that they you know invited me
and they based this episode around me
and Bart um it was a huge honor and it
still is to this day I mean like I said
it it was I watch The Simpsons from when
it was on Tracey Ullman mmm
what about getting your board up in the
Smithsonian um that is a huge honor that
I never imagined or fathom would that
they would be interested in such a thing
and the ID the fact that I've lost so
much stuff through the years and given
away so much stuff and throwing stuff
away that somehow I held onto that board
you know that it didn't I mean through
my first five or six he was skating he
didn't have that much meaning right but
but I always kept it for some reason and
then they contacted me about about
donating a Smithsonian I called my
brother cuz I it was actually his boy
gave it to me it was his hand-me-down so
I had to call him for permission and I
said Steve they they want to put this
board in the Smithsonian and he said to
me that's where I thought I always
belonged whoa
and that was to me that was more
validation than anything the fact that
you know my brother who got me into
skating gave my first board thought that
much of it that we both went to DC and
handed over in white gloves pretty cool
so you're go a little less I guess we
did a 24-hour live here where I was on
camera for 24 hours I was answer
people's questions and you know doing
obviously a lot of talking at the end of
it I felt pretty good and then I had two
days later I had to fly to London and I
had another nine-hour QA and at the end
of that my voice felt different there
were certain notes I couldn't hit and it
freaked me out because I'd always taken
my voice for granted I'd never thought
about the fact like what would this look
like if I couldn't speak and then it
didn't go away and didn't go away and
then I started feeling like pressure in
my throat and it was getting really
weird and like it made me ask I realized
for the first time that my voice was a
part of my identity and I'd never
realized it and so suddenly I felt like
a different person and a less person if
I wasn't gonna be able to vocalize and
so my mind just starts running away and
I started thinking like not only Who am
I without this but like what do I
actually do like how do I run the
business right so I know at one point
you weren't skating a lot in the
business and you were focused more on
the marketing but then ultimately
realize I need to go back and skate yeah
like have you thought at all about like
Who am I without this and what uh well I
honestly went through that a couple
years ago my wife can attest to this but
I started losing sponsors all at once
and I mean like a group of them and it
was all it wasn't necessarily because of
anything I was lacking or doing it was
just more of the business and and the
the way that endorsements were working
at the time that it was just like
there's no more yearly contracts you
know everything is more short social
media base but but they all came
crashing down at once and I struggled
with it I struggled with my sense of
value I struggled with yeah Who am I
what is I thought this was what I was
doing either this was my purpose my this
is my living and it took a while for me
to really come to terms with I love
doing this regardless but also even if
I'm not doing this I'm still effective
as a person in terms of as running a
business being a father you know having
value having
interesting he liked all those things
where were things that I had to accept
about myself because this this thing
that I took for granted for the most
part that I knew and loved and that I
had done for for 20 years as a career
more 30 years as a career was suddenly
coming to not a screeching halt but
definitely a slow and it took a lot of
self-reflection to get through that and
realized that I still want to do it even
if not getting paid as much as I was so
what is that next phase
well definitely I'm hugely proud of what
my foundation has created and
accomplished over the last 15 years of
doing public skate parks and low-income
areas and working on a more
international level with SCADA Stan
funding projects in South Africa and
Cambodia and the Olympics are gonna come
around so that's exciting to me I feel
like I could not just advocate but but
be part of the the international
accessibility of it there's going to be
a skate team from Ethiopia there's gonna
be a skate team from Cambodia that stuff
excites me because we never imagined
that there would be any interest of
skating or any sort of scene and they're
gonna have Olympic teams you know
they're gonna have like top-notch
athletes and that's amazing to me and
that's what gets me really excited
what's that's that's not necessary
what's next for me but that's what's
next for skateboarding and that's huge
all right before I ask my last question
where can these guys find you online I'm
on all the social medias Tony Hawk at
Tony Hawk in fact I had to had to
wrestle my Instagram handle away from
someone who was squatting on it really I
supposedly I was the first athlete on
Instagram but when I went to join
someone already taking Tony Hawk I
wasn't posting anything and and then
they wanted money for it yeah
sounds about right how did you get it
yeah I think someone from instant it was
it was Kevin Systrom saw that I was on
and I was gaining a following under a
different name and he said hey do you
want your name I noticed someone's
squatting on it and within like a minute
I had it that's awesome yeah that's
awesome all right my last question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
um I hopefully someone that made
skateboarding more accessible you know
someone that brought it into the sort of
main I don't want to say mainstream but
but a bigger audience and but selfishly
I just want to be known as someone that
was a good skater I think you've got
that down pat thank you awesome Tony
thank you so much every day guys a I
can't imagine a world in which you
didn't already know Tony Hawk coming
into this but I'm telling you that you
don't know the real Tony Hawk the guy
watch him fall over and over and over
and get up and keep going and watch some
of the innovative stuff that he's done
which is absolutely insane from doing
the loops to him having fun skating in
zero-g was a lot of fun to watch but the
real innovations things like the 900
being the first to do that the the wind
percentage of almost 90% like that's
never gonna be paralleled again in human
history um is absolutely insane to me
and watching somebody that has that
level of grit and perseverance to me is
is astonishing especially because it's
something that I've tried to know how
bad it hurts and I think that there
really is one thing as he said that
separates people that go on that do
extraordinary things from people that
have the talent and the ability but
don't go on to match that and that is
how do you respond the first time you
get hurt and if that moment breaks you
and turns you away then you're never
going to be able to accomplish what you
want but if you can come to some sort of
understanding relationship of what
you're trying to accomplish that you're
going to have to get past that fear that
you're gonna have to learn to deal with
that pain and that if you can wake up
from a brief coma in the back of the
ambulance and not be thinking about
while I'm never doing that again but
instead saying I'm never gonna
make that mistake again and I'm gonna
land the trick the next time then you
can do anything you set your mind to and
that to me is the most expiring example
that anyone can set I think it goes
without saying that he will be
remembered as somebody who was a great
skater but beyond that I think he'll be
remembered as somebody who showed just
how far you can go if you persevere
so my friends stick with it grind it the
[__] out all right if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care what's up impact of Asst if
you've ever failed your New Year's
resolutions we've created a free guide
just for you the resolution reality
checklist it teaches you how to write
smarter resolutions so you will actually
crush this year you can download it
today at info impact Theory comm forward
slash resolutions